= Introduction =

Smokey is a open source command line tool used to analyze .NET or Mono assemblies for problems. It's similar to tools like !FxCop and Gendarme. Currently Smokey runs on Mono 1.2.6 or above and on .NET. Descriptions of all of the rules provided by the currently released version can be found [https://home.comcast.net/~jesse98/public/Smokey/violations/frames.html here].

Smokey can generate reports of problems found in html, text, or xml formats. [https://home.comcast.net/~jesse98/public/Smokey/report.html Html reports] can be generated with commands like `mono bin/smokey.exe -html -out:report.html -set:ignoreList:SysIgnore.txt /Users/jessejones/New_Files/mono-1.9/mcs/class/lib/net_2_1/System.Core.dll` (!SysIgnore.txt can be found in the source).


= Related Tools =

[http://www.mono-project.com/Gendarme Gendarme] is the original Mono assembly checker. It was created for the 2005 Google Summer of Code but as of May 2008 its framework is much less powerful and scaleable than Smokey and it has about half the number of rules.

!FxCop is Microsoft's tool. It has a lot of [http://msdn2.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ee1hzekz(VS.80).aspx rules] and is a mature product. But it only runs on Windows, is not open source, and is missing some cool rules such as [https://home.comcast.net/~jesse98/public/Smokey/violations/Reliability.html#ConsistentEquality ConsistentEquality], [https://home.comcast.net/~jesse98/public/Smokey/violations/Reliability.html#CtorCallsVirtual CtorCallsVirtual], [https://home.comcast.net/~jesse98/public/Smokey/violations/Correctness.html#NullDeref NullDeref], [https://home.comcast.net/~jesse98/public/Smokey/violations/Reliability.html#StaticSetter StaticSetter], and [https://home.comcast.net/~jesse98/public/Smokey/violations/Performance.html#ValueHashCode ValueHashCode].

[http://wwwhome.cs.utwente.nl/~ruys/moonwalker/ MoonWalker] is a model checker for Mono. It exhaustively simulates execution of assemblies and looks for problems like deadlocks and invalid assertions.

[http://findbugs.sourceforge.net/ FindBugs] is a Java tool. Unlike !FxCop it focuses more on outright bugs than design violations.

[http://www.mono-project.com/Generating_class_status_pages mono-api-info] is used internally by the Mono team to ensure that their public APIs do not change between releases.